the 20th century was dominated by
delusions of passive progress
and i would say that in the 21st century
we have yet to replace these delusions
with a more pragmatic notion
of how progress will actively be
achieved
i was gonna do a day of my life so i was
showing everything that wasn't jewish
so this was something else you did
hashtag
jew talk israeli rosh hashanah fish head
and traditions yeah because this is like
people don't know why you have a fish
head at rosh hashanah and so forth were
you disappointed we didn't have a fish
yet
it was so sad in the pomegranates no one
knew hebrew i was ready to be keeper
with people i was like so excited about
it and it just didn't happen so you did
this one
here i love ju talk is now your most
common
it's popular i got free falafels here
for wearing an israel shirt
okay this is the one i had a problem
with no nutrition you know you can't she
says raiding my
jew lunch uh-huh do you not see what's
the problem with that i couldn't fit ish
in there
but jew is like a derogative no my jew
lunch i think it's the way if you say it
i was writing like oh my good lunch
i can tell you with on with 100
certainty you cannot say that it's
offensive moses said it was fine and he
is from israel and had a bar mitzvah i
also saw israeli matzo meal and i got
really excited because i said israeli
and hey my boyfriend's israelis so i
really love them and i love you guys if
you're israeli like shout out i love you
guys so much
i also saw these chocolates with these
cute little kids on the box and i was
like oh we need to get them and i saw
even more chocolates and it's like oh
yeah yeah
my israelis know what's up the jews
really love their chocolates so i also
got the chocolate cereal that has some
milky milk in it which is really cool
the juice also love wafers which who
would have known
what's in it
my god
really yeah oh my god it's so good
i don't know how to say that in hebrew
but i know something i don't know that
oh my god it's all good i'm sure you've
guessed by now
that this is a serious video about a
serious topic
and if you found yourself laughing at
the first minute and a half
ask yourself why and what is exactly
you're laughing at
what it is that's so awkward or perhaps
so offensive
or so disturbing about what you've just
seen
isn't it possible that when we look at
trisha paytas
in her attempts to appropriate jewish
culture
we're actually looking at the best case
scenario
for the future of judaism of jewishness
and of anti-semitism that may be the
best thing we can hope for
is that this just comes to be regarded
as another
normal culture in the same sense that
south korean culture or japanese
culture it's it's just another culture
hate crimes against jews have increased
by nearly a third since 2010 according
to the home affairs select committee
report
and the volume and viciousness of online
abuse is unprecedented
it's all news that comes as no surprise
to the community
we will get calls from visibly jewish
people whether it's in london
north manchester gateshead leeds other
places
who tell us that on a regular basis when
they walk to and from synagogue
they get abused shouted at them by
people on street corners by people from
passing cars they may get
stones or coins thrown at them
and for too many people this is
something they feel they have to put up
with because it's just part of
being jewish the report shows an 11
rise in anti-semitic incidents in the
first half of this year compared to
2015.
it also shows the number of people in
britain with anti-semitic attitudes
rose by 50 percent in just 12 months
and as many as 1 in 20 adults in the uk
could now be characterized
as clearly anti-semitic daniel and theo
are barely in their teens
children who say they've had vicious
hate shouted at them by grown men
we were getting onto a bus and a car was
driving by
and seeing as we were wearing our suits
and our kipper on our head
the car slowed down and shouted you
jewish
i was just thinking why do they feel
that way just because we're jewish i
just felt it was unfair
in the same way that tricia peters has
just gotten enthusiastic
about both jewishness and the state of
israel specifically
and has started kind of collecting
jewish stuff
and wearing pro-israel t-shirts every
day
there are white guys who get a japanese
girlfriend
and start you know becoming fascinated
with
and clothing themselves with
japanese culture going to japanese
markets eating japanese
food so on and so forth does this
really represent something negative
or is there something more important for
us to examine
in the negative public reaction to this
example and if you want to reply
by claiming that the state of israel
is in a uniquely terrible political
position
well no it's not unique is it it could
indeed be said
that israel is a war-torn country in a
strange sort of
cold war situation with its neighbors
so is south korea there are many
countries
and many cultures all over the world
that are in a war-torn
politically fraught situation israel
isn't
unique we make it unique because of the
expectations
that we place on israel because of this
very strange
exceptionalism that's applied to judaism
and jewishness
even if in practice this is a form of
racism
that it falls into the heading of ethnic
politics i would say that this problem
is
in principle political how do you think
your jewish heritage
impacts your vision of the world and
politics and do you think it is a help
or a hindrance to your
role as a candidate the american jewish
community experienced the highest level
of anti-semitic incidents last year
since tracking began
in 1979 with more than 2 100 acts of
assault
vandalism and harassment reported across
the united states the total number of
anti-semitic incidents in 2019
increased 12 percent over the previous
year with a disturbing 56
increase in assaults jews were the
target of most religion-based hate
crimes in 2018.
nearly 60 percent of hate crime attacks
were targeted against jews and jewish
institutions in 2018.
in 2018 hate crime murders totaled 24
the highest since the fbi began tracking
and reporting on hate crimes in 1991.
the increase is attributable to 2018
having seen the deadliest anti-semitic
hate crime in american history when 11
worshipers were murdered in the three
congregations meeting at the tree of
life synagogue building in pittsburgh
people like louis farrakhan who called
jews satanic
bloodsuckers and termites are allowed to
spew their vitriol on twitter and
instagram he has 348 000 followers on
twitter if bernie sanders is elected he
would be your first jewish american
president as a jewish american that
would be
a huge step forward in this country and
low back against the rise of
anti-semitism in this country
as far as the uh as far as the uh
alt-right anti-semitism i mean as
somebody who received an inordinate
amount of hate from the alt-right in the
last year
uh the anti-defamation league named me
the number one recipient of anti-semitic
tweets
for journalists on the internet last
year uh and that was largely driven by
uh the the alt-right um i think that
people need to understand what the
alt-right actually is and people who
think they're all right so not everybody
who likes memes is an alt-right person
okay i think a lot of these i think a
lot of memes are hilarious
uh you know i'm particularly fond of
harambee meme so i'm there a lot of
these things that i think are really
funny
but i think that the alt-right did a
good marketing thing when they broaden
their appeal because the actual basis of
the all-right movement people like jared
taylor and richard spencer
is is essentially a white supremacist
argument
uh that the that the white race created
western civilization and that outsiders
to that race are threats to western
civilization
uh and i think that the rise of of that
movement uh
is partially driven as a reaction to the
intersectionality theory of the left
any jewish people that vote for a
democrat
i think it shows either a total lack of
knowledge or great disloyalty
you know they were chanting like in
charlottesville
jews will not replace us and then having
a jew literally replace them would be
like
that would be so satisfying you also had
people that were
very fine people on both sides tonight
neo-nazi in pennsylvania a small rural
town near the new york border splitting
apart by a growing movement filled with
hate the man at the center of it says
trump's election has emboldened him and
his followers
it is definitely a difficult time to be
jewish right now considering the trump
administration's
anti-semitism and there's been a spike
in hate crimes and nazi empowerment
so on the left you've seen the the this
attempt to basically paint everybody in
the united states as a member of a
particular
race or sex or sexual orientation
they're not individuals they're groups
and all of these groups have been
victimized by western civilization and
therefore they have to stand up and
fight back against western civilization
and there's a group of people on the
so-called alt-right who aren't
particularly conservative by the way
they're not in favor of smaller
government many of them
many of them are overtly anti-christian
not just anti-judaic uh and they come
along and they say okay well if
intersectionality is good for the left
why can't it be good for the right
right why can't we have uh why can't
this be for white people right if
there's an interest group for black
people why not have an interest group
for white people and i think that that's
uh
that reactionary tendency gained some
steam during the last election cycle
and uh and because they consider
themselves to be politically incorrect
more than just wrong
they they glom on to a person they
consider to be politically incorrect
which is president trump
i grew up in austria i'm very aware of
kristallnacht
or the night of broken glass it was a
night of rampage against the jews
carried out in 1938
by the nazi equivalent of the proud boys
i grew up in the ruins of a country that
suffered the laws of its democracy
my father's family was wiped out by
hitler
in the holocaust i know about what crazy
and radical
and extremist politics mean i learned
that lesson as a tiny
tiny child when my mother would take me
shopping and we would see people
working in stores who had numbers on
their arms because they were in hitler's
concentration camp
i am very proud of being jewish and that
is an essential part
of who i am as a human being what we are
seeing right now we've seen it in
america and we're seeing this all over
the world
it's a rise in anti-semitism
[Music]
we're seeing people being stabbed in new
york city
because they were jewish if there was
ever a time in american history
where we say no to religious
bigotry this is the time if there
is any people on earth who understands
the danger
of racism and white nationalism
it is certainly the jewish people this
is not my normal content
as some of you know i am jewish if you
didn't know that
surprise i've also recently decided to
try my hand at making tick tocks which
is when i made the discovery that tiktok
is a very shitty place to be if you're
jewish so how did i make that discovery
well one day i was just sitting around
and i decided you know what i'm gonna
make a goofy little tik tok about what
it's like to be
jewish on social media and the response
to that tick tock was
interesting let me show you the tick
tock
i see a lot of people doing their you
know social media activism
but when it comes to speaking out
against anti-semitism those same people
are
completely silent so this was just like
my way of playfully
poking fun at the hypocrisy if i had to
guess why people
don't want to speak out against
anti-semitism and in some cases why
they make anti-semitic comments online i
would say it's probably for
one of the following reasons a they
incorrectly assume that all jews are
privileged and therefore don't need
allyship and support
b they're afraid of the backlash which
is you know understandable a lot of
people have some very
unhealthy and uneducated beliefs about
jewish people c
they actually just don't like jewish
people d they simply do not give a [ __ ]
or e
they're trolling this is where i want to
step into the video and
disagree with her productively because
if i were to make a numbered list
of what the problems are and what the
solutions are that they hint at
implicitly
out of a very different set of concerns
leading to a very different set
of conclusions a large percentage of
people
i don't know the percentage but a very
large percentage of people
are simultaneously fascinated by
and terrified of this idea that there
are
secret clubs that hold political
power over them that somewhere there's a
meeting
of special people who discuss
what parliament is really going to do
what the senate or congress is really
going to do
or what city hall is going to do and it
is the abstract
idea of this possibility not the reality
of the political process
in the country they're living in that
they're fascinated by
and that breeds these hysterical
conspiracy theories
let me tell you something there are
clubs
that you can join today
where members of the social and
political elite
meet to discuss the future of your city
your province your state
your country the empire club of canada
in toronto has an open door they have a
website i think they have a youtube
channel where they upload these lectures
and if you join if you pay a couple
hundred dollars here and there
you can attend special lectures given by
the mayor
given by members of parliament given by
influential lawyers
and leaders of public opinion here in
victoria bc canada
it's the capital of this province the
union club was the best
example i could come up with if you take
a moment
to look around probably in the city
you're living in
or in the country you're living in there
are clubs of this kind
and if you tried to get involved
positively
you might be shocked at just how
easy it is to participate and why
because so few people care because the
reality is
they have meetings where members of this
political elite come together
to discuss what should happen next at
parliament at congress
at city hall or even in foreign policy
or in economic planning
and nobody shows up
unless they're paid to and even when
they pay
even when they pay a lot of money for
someone with a phd
from the university to come and give a
presentation you'd be shocked and
horrified at
how little sincere interest there is in
the future of our democracy you'd be
shocked at the extent to which these
elites
are voluntary in terms of their
participation that they're just
comprised of
whoever it is that wants to dedicate the
time
to really show an interest in the future
of their
polity very striking illustrative
example here
of a young woman she was a university
student in california
who became an influential and important
person
in american politics just
by showing up
she didn't have money she didn't have
connections she didn't have a conspiracy
behind her and right now there's an
investigation there's a suspicion
that she was doing this in order to spy
on the united states of america on
behalf of
the government of china but we don't
know that that's just a theory that's
just an allegation
we don't know that what did she actually
do
well there were these meetings for
mayors
in the united states america for
municipal level government to get
together and have a meeting
and guess what just like the elite clubs
i alluded to before just like the empire
club of canada and so on
anyone can show up and she showed up
so she got to sit down at the table with
and talk to
and theoretically lobby or influence
mayors and then later congressmen
and then later senators she had no
qualifications
she was a member of the asian pacific
islander association of her university
and as the text says on screen she used
this
um i don't know what's her business card
she used this to get her foot in the
door just to say she had some reason to
be there or some reason to talk to these
people
she showed up you can show up too
you can participate in the democratic
forums in your country you know what the
truth is
even if you live in a country that is
not a democracy
you would be amazed you would be amazed
at how many public consultations there
are
how many forms there are how many
opportunities there are
for people to show up and at least hear
what people in government have to say
if not chit chat with them inform them
how many social forums of this kind
there are going on behind the scenes
every day the people who think this way
take zero interest in political power
themselves they have zero interest in
participating
in the political process themselves they
have zero interest in the
actually existing clubs of this kind
and then reciprocal with that mentality
is this over the top hysteria
about jews and jewishness in specific
and you will find that those same
hysterical attitudes
can be applied and are applied just as
readily
to the idea of a russian conspiracy
existing behind the scenes in the united
states of america
to the idea of a chinese conspiracy
existing behind the scenes united states
america and the way to overcome this
is both to make the real political
process more transparent
more democratically accountable and to
give people a higher level of education
so they know precisely how boring the
reality is
of participating in that democratic or
undemocratic political process
yeah super
[Music]
super beautiful woman no
gal gadot is so great at being wonderful
girl good old
she's in a fast and furious movies
she's
[Music]
the 20th century was dominated by
delusions of passive progress
and i would say that in the 21st century
we have yet to replace these delusions
with a more pragmatic notion
of how progress will actively be
achieved
what do i mean by passive progress the
idea that
passively people all over the world will
get
less and less racist with the passage of
time
and why just because just because
there's some
invisible force like gravity pulling
people down to earth
that's just to make people less racist
less mutually invidious
with the passage of time no particular
government program is going to force
this to happen
no particular decision made
democratically or undemocratically
no particular direction taken on by
education just the
passage of time itself would result in
the whole world
becoming one more secular two more
scientific in their attitudes
three more mutually accepting and
mutually appreciative i don't know
maybe it's the fact that there were more
and more chinese restaurants in downtown
new york city
people had the delusion that this alone
would bring about a
golden age of um i don't know the
unification of
all peoples and all cultures around the
world it's not going to happen
unless you force it to happen and i do
think i'm
jewish myself i do think that judaism
and jewishness
has played this unique catalyst's role
in the western reappraisal of what the
nation state is supposed to be what the
future of nationalism is
and what the future of ethnicity is
supposed to be this is not
only because of the holocaust this is
the most examined
chapter of the story it also has to be
pointed out more broadly
the jews themselves already during the
french revolution
were perceived as in some ways the most
secular most atheistic most
cosmopolitan part of the population
in the 20th century it's fair to say
that the idea of what an american jew
looked like and how they spoke and acted
was someone like jerry seinfeld and
someone like jerry seinfeld is a
cosmopolitan secular if not overtly
atheist
a modern leading edge supposedly
intelligent
sort of guy that's the image of
supposedly who jews are
and what they represent and now if you
just take five minutes to look at the
demographics
of the modern state of israel you're
gonna see not only is this not true
it's not the direction the state of
israel is going in the percentage of
israeli jews who are
religious who are extremely religious
who are
heredis the percentage of the state of
israel
who look and act and sound and think
nothing like
jerry seinfeld but who fall into a very
different category and you relate to
the ongoing peace process of the
palestinians and
changing foreign policy led by jared
kushner and reconciliation with
neighboring arab states who relate to
those global and local politics
in a profoundly different way that we
profoundly can't understand
the delusion of the 20th century was
that
all of these problems would just
passively
disappear and from the other side
anti-semitism would disappear because
the delusion was
the masses of christians in the world
the masses of muslims in the world
were going to catch up with jerry
seinfeld that just
passively scientific cosmopolitan
secular attitudes were going to blossom
for no
reason at all
i would say this is a bit like the
delusion of passive
effortless weight loss you've got to
look in the mirror at some point
and say nothing is going to change
unless i change it
unless i really make a commitment to not
just
try harder but to really suffer
right that's when you're going to lose
weight that's when you're going to get
in shape
nothing is going to change culturally or
religiously
unless we commit to a kind of
transformation
personally individually politically
culturally in a larger scale
that's going to entail terrible
suffering and yes it is probably going
to entail
the government making very hard
decisions that will be bitterly
protested against by people who
you know value their own religion more
or value their ethnicity more
than the future of having a genuinely
pluralistic democracy
where these people sit at one table
they're educated in one school
and they debate the future of their
country in one in the same parliament
as equals you can say i'm a jew from
israel but you can't use
jew as an adjective like jew lunch
sounds [ __ ] up
people can say they're a jew and i can't
say jew lunch hey i'm like promoting
this like
culture yeah but you're kind of like
this is kind of like cultural
appropriation isn't it
appreciation right okay that's this i
think it is so many israelis will like
be like thank you so much for like
you know speaking hebrew like a lot of
people like say thank you for it and i
mean there's some that hate it but
there are some that hate it would you
get aid comments yeah i mean there's
certain people that are like
what are they saying i mean that's where
just like people who say free palestine
they get pissed off but i don't know oh
it's not the jews that get in not just
the american jews that get angry which
aren't real jews you're like what's
like calm down you're from ventura
california like you know you don't know
the struggle
at the start of this video i talked
about the possibility with
trisha paytas as my somewhat amusing
example the possibility that the best
case scenario for the future of judaism
and jewishness
would be for it to come to be regarded
just as a culture
just another culture in the world no
more remarkable then and maybe no less
remarkable than
japanese culture or south korean just
being a culture that someone like trisha
paytas
could become enthusiastic about now
let's all pause for a minute
and think about why that's not going to
happen or why it's not going to happen
during my lifetime
all right anti-semitism is reciprocal
with
christianity anti-semitism is reciprocal
islam the other part of the delusion of
passive progress
was just that muslim people were going
to give up being muslim
christians we're going to give up being
christians and even under
communism in eastern europe in russia
the ukraine poland
we can see that's not true that didn't
happen at all
today it's not just that christianity
has been revived in eastern europe
anti-semitism has been revived along
with it
anti-semitism and a fascination with
judaism the assumption that jews are
some kind of special
exceptional people in the history of the
world and in the future of the world
that mentality of jewish exceptionalism
is hardwired
into christianity as a religion and
christian culture
it is hardwired into islam and muslim
culture
to an unbelievable extent there is a
sense in which we can never
achieve this future we can never achieve
this
ideal of the whole world having
attitudes
as sophisticated as tricia paid us which
is to say
not terribly sophisticated at all we
can't even achieve that
unless or until we overcome
christianity and islam in other words
we're going to have
a problem with anti-semitism for as long
as we have
a culture dominated by the
judeo-christian
religions ultimately the bible
is a book about jews written by
and for jews and paradoxically it
provides the basis for
two of the largest most powerful and
most intensely anti-semitic religions in
the world
namely christianity and islam talk boss
featuring words that kill
my slang is editorial explicit material
briefcase show lava stereo flow filming
donna realty set the black people free
and that's what it's all about you know
everyone will always have something to
say about any issue